tax and consumption tax. § The only province that allows yacht leasing in China. § Sanya will build the largest cruise home port in the world.§ Hainan has built 2 cruise ports in Sanya and Haikou, and has 4 cruise berths, which can accommodate a maximum of 150,000-ton cruise ship. § From 2012 to 2019, Hainan received a total of 1115 international cruises with 840,000 tourists.§ Hainan has built and operated 15 yacht marinas, with 2568 berths, 638 registered yachts, and about 60 yacht clubs and related companies, covering manufacturing, repair and maintenance, training, sales, financial insurance, operating services and other industries. § In 2019, the total number of yachts in the province exceeded 96,300, and the number of sailings was 29,136, up 70.9% YoY. During the National Day Golden Week, yachts sailed 3,404 times, an increase of 57.5%. § Yacht tourism is moving from "niche high-end" to "public leisure”. § Cruise line development cooperation § Cruise infrastructure cooperation § Cruise supply cooperation § The free-independent-tour programs among Hainan, HK and Macao by yachts § Development of new yacht lease § Development of yacht tourist attractions § Cooperation of the entire yacht industry chainDevelopment Advantages § Zero-tariff for yachts imported to the island. § Development of regional headquarters for cruise and yacht related companies. § Encourage international cruise companies to set up operations and settlement centers, focusing on the development of cruise economy such as cruise maintenance, ship supply, ship registration, financial insurance, and marketing. § Focus on the development of yacht trading, display, leasing, design, manufacturing, maintenance, driver training, and set up Hainan International Yacht Trading Center.Development Direction 30 2.3 Culture and Sports HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§The integration of sports and culture has become the general trend. Sports consumption will become a key area for the development of modern service industry in Hainan Province. §Hainan Province has successfully held many large events. As an important growth point of the economy, culture and sports have increasingly become the leading industries. Development Direction§ Successfully held many large cultural and sports activities: § The original British Musical “Cats” performed 8 times during the National Day Holiday. § Successfully bid for the 6th Asian Beach Games in 2020.Hainan International Film Festival FIA Electric Formula Championship Sanya § Successfully developed 5 independent brand international events: Hainan International Road Cycling Race South Island International Regatta Hainan (Sanya) International Marathon Hainan Golf Open International Tourism Island windsurfing Grand PrixSanya International Music Festival Strawberry Music Festival Large theme parks Amusement facilities Sports eventsProfessional E- games International performance activities ……Investment FieldsCurrent Status New Opportunities for FTP InvestmentFilm and television industryTourism perfor- manceAnime GamesSports events Further levitate restrictions on foreign investment access §Pilot test the set up of performance agencies and performance venue operating units in an approved cultural tourism area by foreign capital. Foreign-funded cultural and artistic performance groups (if controlled by Chinese shareholder) are allowed. Hotels can receive overseas TV channels if approved by the state. Industrial investment environment is continuously improving §The construction of  the Hainan Free Trade Port has attracted a large number of outstanding talents in related fields. In addition, the Hainan Provincial Government has set up the Hainan Cultural and Sports Industry Development Fund to continuously optimize the investment environment. Policy breakthroughs in the field of sports are expected in the future §Hainan will introduce policies to strongly support the development of the professional e-games industry and inbound golf tourism, and promote the cultural and sports industry towards quality and rapid development. 21 2.4 Education Industry HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§ The international education industry has a huge advantage with the construction of  the Hainan Free Trade Port. § Hainan is actively attracting a batch of cooperative education projects with overseas institutions such as Coventry University from U.K., Michigan State University from U.S., and Lisbon University from Portugal to settle in Lingshui Li’an International Education Innovation Pilot Zone. § Education and related industries have developed rapidly and the development of Internet education has entered a fast track.Current Status § Hainan will establish a national education innovative development pilot area, improve the new mechanism of running schools, and steadily construct the Hainan international education innovation island. § Policies support:Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP InvestmentKey Park Yangpu Economic Development Zone §Attract petrochemical and high tech focused universities, supported by the petrochemical industry base and Sino German Industrial Park in Yangpu. Lingshui Li’an International Education Innovation Pilot Zone §Provide a platform for Chinese foreign cooperation in running first-class universities, an innovation demonstration area of international education, and a training area of  international talents. Wenchang International Space City §Attract first-class scientific research institutions of aerospace and build an international university of aeronautics and astronautics. Boao Lecheng International Medical Tourism Pilot Area §Introduce sino-foreign joint-run medical schools and develop a new mode of integrated coordination of medical teaching, research and production. ‐ Provide school lands in favorable way ‐ Schools can independently determine the tuition and fees based on their costs. ‐ Zero tariff for imported teaching and research equipment and instruments.§ Encourage first-class overseas universities to start cooperation programs. § Establish international high schools and kindergartens. § Encourage foreign engineering universities and vocational colleges to run independently. § Support foreign enterprises to run schools in sole proprietorship. § Establish joint-run medical and health schools in form of independent legal entities. § Headquarters, regional headquarters, or research centers for international organizations, international educational institutions, and large international education companies. 32 2.5 Round-the-Island Tourism Road Station HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE Project Planning Highways: connecting 12 cities and counties §A total length of 1429 km §Main line of 999 km §Newly built section of 442 km §Combining existing highways for the remaining part Road stations: building 40 boutique stations §Characteristic architectural style §Diversified business forms §Focus on eco-friendly issue and evenly distribute different stations§ The development goal of the tourism road around the island is to build an ecological road, a scenic road, a cultural road, a smart road and a happy road. § Breakthrough of the traditional traffic function by adding elements of tourism, entertainment, leisure, and consumption. § The road is the "chain" and the stations are the "Pearls". It will be a landmark project and a masterpiece of tourism throughout the whole region. 6 business forms of station investment promotion Theme Parks EntertainmentResort HotelsMuseum and Historic Places Commercial ShoppingFood and BeverageProject Positioning "Pearl necklace" overall layout 1 2 The round-the-island tourism road station is a comprehensive tourism service facility, incorporating the functions of "tourist centers, featured tourism products and regional integrated platforms", building a round island tourism consumption platform, a tourism product system with Hainan coastal features, targeting one third of the high-end tourists of the whole island in the future, focusing on six major business forms. 33 2.6 Shipping Vessel HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§ Located in the south of China, Hainan is an indispensable hub for trips to Asia and Oceania. It is the forefront of maritime exchanges among China, ASEAN, South Asia, and Middle Eastern coastal countries, and an important spot for the “Belt and Road”.§Hainan has formed a port system with Haikou Port in the north, Yangpu Port and Basuo port in the west, Sanya port in the South and Qinglan port in the East, with 147 production berths, including 73 deep-water berths of 10,000 tons and above. §Hainan has a large number of high-quality port hinterland for industrial development, which are scarce resources in the country.Current Status Development Advantage § Build an international shipping hub with strong service functions and coverage area, continuously improve the global shipping resource allocation capabilities, and facilitate the convenience of free transportation.Development Direction ‐ Attract more international shipping companies to register, and promote the return of Chinese-funded "convenience flag" ships. ‐ Attract more international ship management companies to settle, setting a benchmark for the modern service industry of Hainan Free Trade Port. ‐ Focus on the development of shipping service industry chains such as ship financing, shipment insurance and ship maintenance in free trade ports, and attract more high-end shipping services.Geographical advantages Rich marine resources Vast market hinterland § Hainan is backed by the two major markets of mainland China and Southeast Asia. The entry of international shipping companies will help to further enhance their global layout.§ The waters around Hainan are rich in oil and gas resources. Various engineering vessel leasing and service providers will see more opportunities with the development of oil and gas resources in the South China Sea. § Build a "China Yangpu Port" registry port and gradually release the statutory inspection of ships, establish the Hainan Free Trade Port International Ship Registration Center, remove the restrictions on the foreign capital ratio and overseas financing, and replace deposit with insurance for international shipping companies to register ships in Hainan. § Domestically built ships registered in "Yangpu Port" and engaged in international transportation are deemed to be export and tax refunds will be granted. For container cargo transited in Yangpu Port that meets the conditions, the tax rebate will initiate at the departure port. § Domestic ships in international trade that transit in Yangpu Port are allowed to refill the bonded oil required for the voyage, and export tax rebate policy is implemented for the local-produced fuel used for the voyage. New Opportunities for FTP Investment 34 2.7 Aviation industry §Hainan is a major aviation province. In 2019, 4 airports in Hainan received over 45 million passengers, ranking 12th in the country. § Hainan plans to open more than 100 international routes within two to three years, and promote air connectivity with countries and regions along the “Belt and Road”. Development AdvantagesDevelopment Direction New Opportunities for  FTP Investment Opportunities Aviation maintenance Business jet manufacturing and salesCurrent Status Aircraft leasing International aviation fuel tradeAir base of foreign Airlines General aviation Freedom of Air ……§ Hainan has obvious location advantages, as China’s southernmost open gateway, and also an important node of the “21st Century Maritime Silk Road”. In the future, it will form an all-directional international aviation network with Haikou at its core. § By the end of October 2019, there were over 500 flight routes operating in Hainan, including 96 international and regional routes. § The central government supports Hainan’s development of the aviation industry, and Hainan has been set to become a pilot for opening the fifth freedom of air; aircraft imports are exempt from tariff. §The Civil Aviation Administration supports Hainan to increase routes and flights for further opening up, i.e. optimize route network, strengthen the connectivity with inland aviation hubs, and expand international route coverage. §Hainan will speed up the construction of new airports, renovation and expansion of existing airports, i.e. phase II of Haikou Airport, Sanya new airport, and airport in Danzhou or Dongfang. §The central government supports Hainan to attract social capital for infrastructure construction, i.e. airport construction and operation, general aviation, aircraft maintenance. §Expansion of the fifth freedom of air and pilot opening of the seventh freedom of air. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 35 2.8 Financial Lease Implement “Zero tariff, low tax rate, simple tax system” §In the Hainan Free Trade Port, it will be duty free for transportation vehicles and manufacturing facilities. In the future, the effective tax rate might be equal to or lower than that of Hong Kong or Singapore, greatly reducing the tax cost of financial leasing enterprises. Accelerate the implementation of policies related to Customs remote supervision of financial leasing industry §The Customs has no policy barrier to supervise the financial leasing companies at a different spot. Hainan will formulate details to implement the related policies. Implement convenient foreign exchange management system §A more open foreign exchange management system will reduce the cost of foreign exchange conversion for financial leasing enterprises, therefore, will guarantee the global disposal of assets for enterprisesDevelopment Direction New opportunities for FTP investmentAircraft Financial Leasing Ship Financial Leasing ……Cruise and Yacht Financial Leasing §No minimum registered capital requirement for financial leasing companies to set up subsidiaries in Hainan.Development Advantages Investment Opportunities Policy Market§The market potential for financial leasing is huge, especially in power, transportation, elderly-care, medical treatment and high-end manufacturing.§Promote the financial leasing business of aircrafts and ships. §Several financial leasing enterprises have already set up special project companies (SPV) in Hainan for business. §The first financial leasing business of ship started in Yangpu in 2020.Current Status HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDEHigh-end Medical Equipment Financial Leasing 36 2.9 Offshore Trade §Simplify company registration. Further simplifying the registration of offshore companies, including simplifying the procedures, lifting the restrictions of foreign personnel registry in China, and promoting foreign investment. §Introduce preferential policies. Implement more preferential tax policies for individuals and enterprises, gradually permit the cross-border flow of foreign exchange funds, and marketize interest rates of deposits and loans in offshore areas. §Attract high-end talents, especially offshore trade service talents.§Hainan has made great efforts to develop new forms of international trade, explore global ways of foreign exchange and establish an offshore trade tax system in line with international standards. §In order to further increase the level of opening up, Hainan takes advantage of its location, policies, environment, and ports to build an offshore trade center.Current Status Overall advantage §Offshore trade in Hainan benefits from the construction of the FTP, including the coverage of area, various pilot industries, strong and sound coordination among different areas. Geographical advantage §Hainan has excellent ports all around, and sea cargos can be directly unloaded and transferred to all places in China. It helps Hainan to transit into a trade center from a logistic center.Development Advantages Development Direction YangpuThe establishment of National Offshore Trade Pilot Area §Logistics and Customs supervision: “Single window”international trade procedures will enhance the efficiency of Customs supervision. §International shipping: Yangpu Port becomes an international transfer port, with tax refund at the original ports and convenience of LCL . §International Energy Trade: Target the business of blending of bonded fuel oil to meet the market of ASEAN. §Promote free trade policies in trading, finance, local currency settlement and other fields. Sanya“One center, five agglomerations” Offshore Finance/Trade CenterAgglomeration of listed companies Agglomeration of large capital management Agglomeration of insurance industry Agglomeration of financial conferencesAgglomeration of transaction factors HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE New Opportunities for FTP Investment 37 2.10 Modern finance §Policies to accelerate financial innovation. The central government encourages Hainan to develop Internet finance, maritime finance, cross-border finance and other innovative finance, and encourages domestic and foreign financial institutions to settle in Hainan. §Further deepen foreign cooperation and development. Hainan will increase its cooperation and communication with other countries and attract overseas financial institutions. Hainan encourages foreign capital to set up various innovative institutions, explores equity cooperation between overseas investors and local financial entities, and supports international investors to participate in local financial factor market transactions. §Policies to support the finance industry have been continuously improved. The policies focus on preferential finance, innovative finance and Internet finance, and provide rewards for financial innovation such as new financial subjects and new business forms and models.§The People’s Government of Hainan Province makes great efforts in the financial sector, proposing modern finance industry as  a core industry in Hainan. §The Hainan Free Trade Zone has achieved several finance innovations in the past two years since its establishment, such as multifunctional free trade accounts and securitizing of intellectual properties.Current Status Development Direction Policy advantage §With its advantages in location, policies, environment and ports, and the continuous opening and innovation of the  financial field, Hainan sees new opportunities in cross-border finance and trade-related finance. Geographical advantage §The nearby financial centers of Hong Kong, Guangzhou and Shenzhen will bring synergies to the development of modern finance in Hainan.Development Advantages Investment opportunities Internet Finance Inclusive Finance Marine FinanceCross border FinanceConstruction of Factor Market …… HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE New Opportunities for FTP Investment 38 2.11 Information communication technology § Currently, there are more than 20,000 domestic and overseas Internet, information and communication technology companies registered and operating in Hainan.Giant companies gathered§ Since Hainan Province included the Internet industry as one of the twelve key industries in 2015, the development of the information and communication technology industry has entered a fast track, with investment over 10 billion yuan.Step into the fast lane § Hainan Ecological Software Park, Haikou Fuxing City Internet Innovation and Entrepreneurship Park and other key Internet industry parks have been operating for many years, with an industrial space of more than 1 million square meters.Key parks10 Billion 20,000 1 Million m² § Preferential policies of relevant key industrial parks help the development of enterprises.Clear industry positioning Strong industry support§ The whole island of Hainan is included in the pilot scope of cross- border e-commerce retail imports. § Expand the opening up of the data field, carry out international Internet data exchange pilots, set up international communication gateways. § Expand the opening up of telecommunication resources and services, i.e. open up value-added telecommunications services, gradually remove restrictions on foreign equity ratios, allow online data processing and transaction processing services, and open up basic telecommunications services.Development Advantages Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP Investment IoTGaming & AnimationSatellite NavigationDigital Entertain mentBlock- chainOffshore Data Center Build an industrial cluster of Internet of ThingsPromote the construction of China's gaming cyberportIntroduce leading companies in the industry to build offshore data centersPromoting the Hainan Free Trade Port Blockchain Pilot Zone ProjectMarine applications and aerospace information technology R&D and applicationPromote the gathering of digital entertainment companies HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDECurrent Status 39 2.12 Advanced low-carbon manufacturing Taxation system under the framework of free trade port policy Competitive tax arrangements. Implement "zero-tariff" negative list management for self-use imported production equipment, and positive list management for raw materials imported for self-use in production. For the encouraged industries, companies registered and operated in Hainan Free Trade Port have a reduced income tax rate of 15%. Free and convenient cross-border circulation of various factors In terms of free, convenient, and orderly cross-border flow of trade, investment, capital, personnel, and transportation, new and more efficient measures will be studied and implemented. Actively strive for the policy of origin With reference to the policy of origin, for goods produced by encouraged industries that do not contain imported materials or contain imported materials and are processed in the Hainan Free Trade Port with a value-added of more than 30% (inclusive), will be exempt from import tariffs when entering the domestic market.Resources § Hainan is the only tropical province in China with abundant resources. Location § Hainan is backed by two major markets of mainland China and Southeast Asia, and the manufacturing industry can meet the demand of the both markets.Development Advantages Development Direction Emerging green food processing§Snack foods §Juice §Deep processing of seafoodPorts § Yangpu Port and Basuo Port in the west of Hainan are natural deep-water ports. Policies § Hainan will accelerate the reform of the ecological civilization system, control total carbon emissions on the top level and only control incremental energy consumption.§ Low-carbon manufacturing is one of the twelve key industries in Hainan, focusing on agricultural and side-line products processing, medicine, vehicle manufacturing, etc. § In 2019, 59 out of the top 100 private enterprises in Hainan are green and low-carbon industrial enterprises. Nearly half of the province's high- tech companies are in low-carbon manufacturing.Current Status Car Manufacturing New Energy New Material Tourism manufacturing Marine equipment manufacturing Smart manufacturing§New energy car §Smart Car §New energy industry §High-end components §Yacht §Seaplane/multipur pose helicopter §Energy development equipment §Deep sea exploration §Emerging intelligent terminal §Smart sensors HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDEMedicine & instruments§Advanced Biomedicine §High-end medical equipment New Opportunities for FTP Investment 40 2.13 Medicine & Medical Technology Resources § Hainan has the natural advantages of developing the medical and health industry. Hainan is rich in medicinal animal and plant resources. Policies § The country has issued a series of policies to promote the development of the medicine and medical technology, providing a good policy environment for industry development. Brands § Hainan‘s “healthy island” regional brand effect is significant.§ The medicine and medical industry is one of the key industries that the provincial government is striving to promote. The industry has started steadily and has grown rapidly with distinctive characteristics. § In 2018, enterprises above designated size in Hainan's pharmaceutical industry completed an output value of 23 billion yuan, up 20% YoY. Development Advantages Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP Investment 1st Southern medicine, green food and healthy food, planting and breeding, etc. 2nd Marine biopharmaceuticals, health products, medical devices, and new types of auxiliary materials. 3rd Healthcare services focusing on medical services, health tourism, health insurance, etc.Current Status HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§Build a demonstration zone of high-quality, integrated and concentrated development. With the construction of Free Trade Port, Hainan will build a national health industry pilot test zone, a high- quality integration and development demonstration zone for health industry, an important strategic spot of the “Belt and Road” initiative, and a global health and medical tourism destination. §Unprecedented policies. Hainan Free Trade Port will form an institutional highland for the development of the pharmaceutical industry; The Implementation Plan for Supporting the Construction of the Boao Lecheng International Medical Tourism Pioneer Zone has comprehensively “upgraded” the preferential policies of the Hainan Lecheng Pioneer Zone. Under the background of promoting the construction of the free trade port, the development of the health industry has incredible new opportunities. 41 2.14 Oil & Gas Chemical Development Advantages Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP Investment Oil and gas exploration Oil and gas refining Fine Chemicals New material Oil and gas reserves§ Vast sea area with abundant natural gas and oil resources, accounting for more than 1/3 of the total reserves of the country. Resources Location Policies § Hainan Free Trade Port policies § Value-added rules for processing and other free trade port policies are pilot tested in Yangpu.§ The closest petrochemical and oil and gas reserves to the South China Sea oil and gas resources and the Middle East Petroleum § Covering the two major petrochemical product markets around Northern Gulf and ASEANHainan has formed a complete oil and gas industry chain integrating "exploration, development, processing, warehousing, pipeline transportation, and sales". Among them, Yangpu has developed 10 million tons of oil refining, 10 million cubic meters of oil and gas reserves, aromatic hydrocarbons, and polyester industries and chain, crude oil, refined oil, port logistics and other supporting industries, while Dongfang Port Industrial Park has developed natural gas, methanol industry chain, and fine chemical industry. Current Status HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§The downstream of the oil and gas chemical industry chain has broad development potential. The 1 million ton ethylene project in Yangpu is under construction. New oil refining and ethylene projects are planned, bringing a lot of investment opportunities to the downstream industry. §Encourage well-known overseas companies to participate in the exploration and development of oil and gas resources in the South China Sea. Oil and gas exploration and development is no longer required to be carried out through a revenue sharing contract with a company who has obtained the foreign cooperation approval from the Chinese government since such limitation has been removed. §Imported oil and gas exploration and chemical production equipment are exempt from tax. Exemption of import tariffs, import value-added tax and consumption tax on imported production equipment for self-use will effectively reduce production costs of enterprises. 42 2.15 Deep Sea Technology § Talent introduction policies. Hainan provides support for deep-sea technology talents in terms of salary, child education, housing subsidies, achievement awards and entrepreneurial support, which helps attract talents from related companies to live and work in Hainan. § Platform construction service support. Hainan will further actively promote the construction of science and technology platforms like the Deep Sea Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in terms of land and policies. Similar platforms will become the output places for deep sea mineral, oil and gas exploration technology R&D, and provide related companies with technical cooperation. § Projects leading industry support. Hainan continues to support industrialization of deep sea scientific and technological achievements, R&D of key generic technologies and core engineering equipment, to provide related enterprises with marine technology service capabilities and promote deep sea industry.§ Hainan has a jurisdiction of approximately 2 million square kilometers of sea area, and shoulders the important task of jurisdiction over 2/3 of China’s sea area. § While still in the initial stage of development, deep-sea technology is one of the future pillar industries nurtured by Hainan, with a deep sea tech zone already set up in Sanya.Current Status Development Advantages Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP Investment Deep sea equipment Deep sea materials Deep Sea CommunicationsMarine Biomedicine Marine ship Marine Public ServicesInvestment opportunities Location § Hainan is closest to deep sea among regions in China. Resources § The seabed of South China Sea  contains large amounts of metal minerals, oil and gas, and combustible ice resources. Strategies § With national strategies such as boosting maritime powers, Hainan will become the most important support base for the development of resources in the South China Sea. Talents § The research ability and talent reserve of research institutes such as Deep Sea Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences makes it possible to develop the deep-sea technology industry in Hainan. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 43 Development Direction2.16 Tropical high-production agriculture §Develop Sanya Nanfan Tech Zone: Build the industrial system of the Nanfan Tech Zone focusing on scientific research, core industry of seed technology, and features of tropical agricultural science. §Build a transit base for the introduction of global animal and plant germplasm resources: Build a transit base that integrates functions of quarantine, reserve protection, industrial applications and trade. §Industrial development status：An industrial pattern has been in place with top domestic R&D teams such as the Hainan Seed Innovation Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences,  and key players such as Sinochem for industrialization. § R&D of crops, trees, flowers and plants,  livestock and aquatic products in Nanfan Fundamental Industry Core Industry Featured Industry § Tropical crop technology, tropical agricultural service, tropical agricultural tourism§ Biological breeding technology § Seed trade § Seed technology intellectual property transactionsBy 2030, achieve the goal of "five modernizations" Industrialization Specialization Integration Marketization Globalization Premium breeds rewards §50% of the introduction cost §As much as RMB 3 million for raising high- efficiency premium seedingsTalent subsidies § One-time subsidy of as much as 20 million yuan § Rent-free venues or one- time subsidy on self- purchased housesLoan subsidy § Subsidy on loan as much as 50% of the benchmark interestFacility subsidies §Large research instruments §Seed and agricultural industry related facilities §Procurement of R&D equipment by research platformJoint R&D subsidies § Cooperation with foreign research institutions § High-tech enterprise R&D projects § Conference and exhibition projects § Purchase of research resultsNew Opportunities for FTP Investment HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDECurrent Status 44 2.17 Aerospace industry §Zero tariffs on space equipment. In order to reduce the operating cost of enterprises, Hainan will take the lead in zero- tariff import and export of various commodities used in space equipment. §Encourage foreign investment in the construction of Wenchang International Space Town. §The industrial service platform is continuously improved. In the future, Hainan will build a platform for the opening up and development of aerospace technology and international cooperation.§With its unique location advantage, Hainan has become China's best satellite launch site. Launching satellites near the quayside is already a consensus among space powers. Hainan is the only region in China that has this condition. §Wenchang Space Launch Site is China's most competitive site for commercial space launches. As the only low-altitude coastal launch site in China, Wenchang Aerospace Launch Site is responsible for a series of major aerospace projects such as deep space exploration, manned moon landing, and transportation between space and earth.Current Status Development Direction § Hainan will become a major scientific and technological innovation base in China's aerospace industry under the free trade port strategy. § Formulate an industry structure of aerospace, satellite, and remote sensing in Hainan with Wenchang Space Launch in the North and Sanya Satellite Application in the South, and build a commercial aerospace industry chain. New Opportunities for FTP Investment An important part of China's space map HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§Aerospace core industry: key technology experiments, engineering technology research, R&D and production of infrastructure equipment, and applied aerospace technology. §“Aerospace +” extended industries: aerospace big data application services, Smart Hainan, aerospace life sciences, aerospace technology exhibitions and transactions, aerospace tourism, etc. §Tech support industry: new generation information industry, high-tech, new infrastructure construction. §Service support industries: tech services, cultural innovations, business services, financial services, tourism services, and shared economy. 45 2.18 Headquarter Economy A system environment in line with international standards § Benchmarked against Hong Kong and Singapore, reduced corporate income tax rate and personal income tax rate in Hainan Free Trade Port will be very attractive to headquarters and high-end talents. Increased government support §In the process of building a free trade port, Hainan will further improve the headquarter recognition standard and policy system, and increase the rewards eligible headquarters. Free access and exit of people §Besides the current visa-free list of 59 countries, Hainan is exploring more convenient policies for entrance and exit so as to attract talents for international headquarters. Improved supporting services §Hainan will take advantage of the free trade port to attract well-known domestic and international professional service providers in the area of accounting, law, management consulting, training, etc. to provide headquarters with better services.Transition hub advantage Hainan is an indispensable hub for travel between Asia, Oceania and Southeast Asia. It is the forefront of maritime exchanges between China and ASEAN, South Asia, and coastal countries in the Middle East. Rich marine resources The waters around Hainan are rich in oil and gas resources, and various engineering vessel leasing and service providers will gain more development opportunities. Vast hinterland market Hainan is backed by the two major markets of mainland China and Southeast Asia. Entering Hainan will help to further enhance shipping companies’ global layout.§ As China’s largest special economic zone, Hainan has become a hot spot of ​​domestic and foreign investors. Many large enterprise groups have strong desire to set up their headquarter in Hainan. § In 2019, there were 33 headquarter enterprises acknowledged by Hainan Province, with total assets of 577 billion yuan and tax contribution of 2.388 billion yuan. Development Advantages Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP Investment Attracting international headquarters 2 major headquarter bases ‐ Haikou Jiangdong New District ‐ Sanya HQ Economy and CBD ‐ International headquarters, operational or regional headquarters of MNCs, especially Fortune 500. ‐ International headquarters of SOE and large private enterprises ‐ Regional headquarters of international organizations, etc. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDECurrent Status 46 4Part 4. Region Guidance 1 Region Overview 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions 3 Major Industrial Parks 47 Danzhou BaishaChangjiang Dongfang Ledong SanyaBaotingWuzhishanQiongzhong LingshuiTunchangChengmaiLingao1 Region Overview Hainan Province governs 4 prefecture-level cities, 5 county-level cities, 4 counties, and 6 autonomous counties. It is the only tropical island province and the largest special economic zone in China. Hainan is also the largest free trade zone and the only free trade port with distinctive Chinese features. Danzhou Total area: 9268 km2 Population: 1,050,000 2019 GDP: RMB 35.8 billion Dongfang Total area: 4095 km2 Population: 450,000 2019 GDP: RMB 19.3 billion Ledong Total area: 4492 km2 Population: 550,000 2019 GDP: RMB 14.4 billion Wuzhishan Total area: 1169 km2 Population: 110,000 2019 GDP: RMB 3.4 billion Sanya Total area: 5147 km2 Population: 634,400 2019 GDP: RMB 67.8 billionChangjiang Total area: 1672 km2 Population: 260,000 2019 GDP: RMB 12.6 billionBaisha Total area: 2117 km2 Population: 200,000 2019 GDP: RMB 5.7 billionLingao Total area: 1693 km2 Population: 520,000 2019 GDP: RMB 19.5 billion Baoting Total land area: 1153 km2 Population: 170,000 2019 GDP: RMB 5.6 billion HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 48 49Chengmai Total area: 3176 km2 Population: about 560,000 2019 GDP: RMB 33.0 billion Haikou Total area: 3119 km2 Population: 2,327,900 2019 GDP: RMB 167.2 billion Tunchang Total area: 1232 km2 Population: 295,000 2019 GDP: RMB 8.6 billionQionghai Total area: 3241 km2 Population: 506,100 2019 GDP: RMB 28.3 billion Wanning Total area: 4434 km2 Population: 640,000 2019 GDP: RMB 23.6 billion Qiongzhong Total area: 2705 km2 Population: 180,000 2019 GDP: RMB 5.7 billionWenchang Total area: 7733 km2 Population: 600,000 2019 GDP: RMB 25.7 billion Lingshui Total area: 2331 km2 Population: about 380,000 2019 GDP: RMB 18.3 billionSansha Total area: 2,000,000 km2 Population: 2,500Dingan Total area: 1178 km2 Population: 340,000 2019 GDP: RMB 10.4 billion 三沙市Qiongzhong LingshuiWanningQionghaiTunchangChengmaiHaikou Wenchang Dingan