of the district directly reach Haikou Meilan International Airport. Target Areas 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Sanya 52Overview §Sanya is located in the southernmost part of Hainan Island, including 4 districts of Haitang, Jiyang, Tianya and Yazhou. The total area is 5147 km², with a population of 634,000. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 67.79 billion, an increase of 6.4% over the previous year, ranking the second in the province. §Culture and Sports §Duty Free Consumer Goods §Cruise / Yacht §Round-the-island Tourist Highway §Modern Finance §Offshore Trade §Financing Lease §Deep-sea technology §Tropical High- productive Agriculture §Aviation §Transformation and upgrade of tourism: A number of high-end specialty hotels have settled in, freestyle yacht trips between Hainan, Hong Kong and Macao have been in place, and  Costa Cruises has opened a Sanya home port route. In 2019, the number of yachts sailing out of the sea increased by 58.7% year-over-year, and the number of inbound and outbound cruises increased by 29.7% year-over-year. Total tourism income was RMB 63.3 billion, up 15.6%. §Growth of modern service industry: Headquarter of Datang International and other 45 headquarters registered. §High-tech industries in shape: Actively develop high-tech industries through industrial parks. There are more than 150 registered enterprises and research institutions in Yazhou Bay Tech Park, with an annual output value of over RMB 8 billion, an increase of more than 70% year-over-year.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE  18610024362 53Overview §Danzhou is the economic, transportation, communication and cultural center of western Hainan, with total area of 9268 km2 and a total population of 1.05 million (w/o Yangpu). The land and sea transportation is well developed, with Hainan West Ring Railway and Round-the-Island Highway crossing the city. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 35.76 billion, up 6.5% YoY. Regional GDP per capita was RMB 39,065 , up 5.6% YoY. §Tourism §Tropical High- productive Agriculture §High-tech §Culture and Sports §Medicine and Healthcare §Advanced Low- carbon Manufacturing §Duty Free Consumer Goods §Education2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Danzhou §Strong growth of tropical high-productive agriculture: Further reduced 4,612 acres of low-production crops, rehabilitated 3,593 acres  of abandoned land, built 8 large agricultural projects of over 82 acres, and planted19,768 acres of tropical fruits. §Momentum in tourism industry: Danzhou received 3.46 million tourists in 2019, with a total tourism income of RMB 2.02 billion, up 17.0% YoY. Nada Stonehouse Village was accredited as a provincial five-star countryside tourism spot, and Mutang Blacksmith Village was accredited as a national key countryside tourism village. §New breakthroughs in high-tech: With  Asia’s first high- temperature color glaze printing glass production line, Walkinton has become the province’s largest glass industry chain and  DiP-Tech’s global launching base of new technologies.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Qionghai 54Overview §Qionghai is located in the east of Hainan Province, with a total area of 3,241 km² and a regular population of 510,000. It has high-speed railway, 3 highways, Qionghai Boao International Airport, and Tanmen Port. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 28.33 billion, an increase of 5.1% over the previous year. The per capita GDP was RMB 54,630, increased by 4.0% over the previous year. §Health Care §Tourism §Tropical High- productive Agriculture §Conference and Exhibition §Emerging Finance §Recreational Fishery §High-tech §Duty Free Consumer Goods §IT §Round-the-island Tourist Highway§Rapid development of the medical and healthcare: The annual income of medical institutions was RMB 640 million, an increase of 68.9% year-over-year. Lecheng Pilot Zone is a hot spot for global investment in the area of medical and healthcare, with 9 institutions already in operation. §Continuous growth of tropical high-productive agriculture: The added value in 2019 was RMB 6.664 billion, an increase of 4.2% over the previous year.   A tech pilot zone using less chemical fertilizer with a total area of over 1,647 acre is in construction. §The quality and efficiency of tourism in the whole region: A total of 4.85 million tourists came throughout the year, an increase of 12.8% year-over-year. Tourism income in 2019 was RMB 3.359 billion, an increase of 5.59% year-over-year.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Wanning 55Overview §Wanning is located on the southeast of Hainan Island, at the 18.8-latitude boundary of tropics and subtropics, with tropical oceanic monsoon climate and an average temperature of 24.8 ℃. It has a total area of 4434 km2, a total population of about 640,000, with the round-the-island highway and railway running through its territory. §Tourism and Wellness §Tourism and Commerce §Tourism and Food §Tropical Modern Agriculture §Marine Industry §Round-the-island Tourist Highway§In 2019, the regional GDP reached RMB 28.3 billion, up 5.1% YoY. Regional GDP per capita was RMB 54,630, up 4.0% YoY. §Continuous growth of tourism: The total number of tourists throughout the  year was 6.331 million, up 8.49 YoY, and the total tourism income was RMB 5.4 billion, up 13.08% YoY. The total number of tourist who went for overnight trips was 5.137 million, up 9.6% YoY, and the total income of overnight trips was RMB 5.1 billion, up 13.35% YoY.  The total number of tourist for day trips was 1.19 million, up 3.8% YoY, and the total income of day trips was RMB 327.97 million, up 8.93% YoY. §Increased quality and quantity of modern agriculture with tropical characteristics: Betel nut planting area in Wanning accounts for more than 50% that of the whole province. Various demonstration bases are built in towns such as Liji, Shangen, Dongao, Changfeng, Beida, for high-yield cultivation of betel nuts, comprehensive prevention and control of betel yellowing symptoms, and betel nut pest control.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Wenchang 56Overview §Wenchang is in the northeast of Hainan, where the Hainan Wenchang Space Launch Center is located. It is the fourth aerospace city in China. It has a total population of about 600,000, and a total area of 7733 km2. The Qinglan Port in Wenchang is a national-level open port and an important port in the South China Sea. §In 2019, the regional GDP reached RMB 25.702 billion, up 5.2% YoY. Regional GDP per capita was RMB 44,928, up 4.1% YoY. §Tourism §High-tech §Culture and Sports §Space Technology Innovation §Space Science and Exploration §New Material §High-end Equipment §New Energy §Round-the-island Tourist Road §The rapid growth of tourism: The Song’s ancestral home, Tongguling Scenic Area, and Chunguang Coconut Kingdom were accredited as national 3A tourist areas . The “International Tourism Consumption Year” and “Gourmet & Shopping Carnival” activities were carried out.  A total of 3.846 million visitors and 2.698 million overnight visitors were received, up 14.3% and 12.8% YoY respectively, ranked the first in growth rate within the province. The total tourism income was RMB 1.97 billion, up 26.1% YoY. §Steady development of high-tech industry: Successfully launched Hainan’s first commercial satellite “Wenchang Chaosuan No. 1” and Hainan’s first commercial communications satellite “Wenchang Wulian No. 1”.   The big data service platform for resource and environmental supervision was built. Aerospace International Film and Television Center, Hangzhou Shuliang Tec Company big data index project and other aerospace digital economy projects have been in operation .Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Dongfang 57Overview §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 19.31 billion, up 3.2% YoY. Regional GDP per capita was RMB 44,684, up 2.2% YoY.§Dongfang is located in the southwestern part of Hainan Province, with a total area of 4,095 km2 and a total land area of 2,272 km2, a total population of 450,000. It is only 130 kilometers from Sanya Phoenix International Airport. §Low-carbon Manufacturing §Oil & Gas Chemical §Tropical High- productive Agriculture §Offshore Deepwater Oil and Gas Drilling and Production Equipment §Marine Engineering Supporting Equipment §Continuous optimization of agricultural structure: In 2019, the agriculture added value was RMB 4.945 billion, up 5.3% YoY, ranked first in growth rate in the province. Southern breeding technology is spreading, sweet corn, new varieties of mango, oil tea, Dongfang green orange, bale, chrysanthemum, orchids and other tropical flowers are developing into scale and becoming the highlights of Dongfang’s agriculture. The added value in agriculture was RMB 4.945 billion, up 5.3% YoY. §Fast and quality improvement of industrial transformation: 24 provincial or municipal key projects have attracted investment of RMB 4.84 billion, Huasheng PC project is in smooth progress, special glass deep processing project is in production. Investment agreements of BNBM Group Construction Materials Company’s 30 million sq.m2 plasterboard production line and 8 other projects were signed, with a total agreed investment of RMB 2.44 billion.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Lingshui 58Overview §Located in the southeast of Hainan Island, Lingshui is 58 km away from Sanya Phoenix Airport, with a total area of 2231 km2 and a land area of 1108 km2 . The total population is about 400,000. §2019, the regional GDP was RMB 18.32 billion, up 2.5% YoY. In the future, Lingshui will speed up the development of marine economy demonstration area and enhance the attractiveness of tourism. §International Education §Tropical High- productive Agriculture §Medical Wellness §Digital Industry §Marine Information §Cultural Tourism §Mobile Internet §Satellite Navigation §Military-civilian Cooperative Industries §Quality and efficiency of Tropical High-productive Agriculture: Famous for its Mango, watermelon and litchi, Lingshui National Modern Agriculture Park has  been accredited by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. Guangling Hi- Tech has been accredited as one of the key  national enterprises in agriculture by 8 ministries including the Ministry of Agriculture. §Achievements of High-tech+ tropical aquaculture: The first demonstration project on “5G+Marine Ranch” in Hainan, Cage bio- environment online monitoring system is in trial operation in Lingshui Deep-sea Aquaculture Farm, and smart deep-water cage aquaculture has entered the implementation stage. With the promotion of deep-sea cage farming, more than 1.6 billion tails of all kinds of fish were bred in 2019, and the finished products of fish were over 14,000 tons.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Changjiang 59Overview §Changjiang is located in the northwest of Hainan with total area of 1,672 km2. It has 8 towns and a population of 260,000. It has unique industry development advantages, such as Shilu Iron Mine, the top Asia mine rich in iron ore, and the only nuclear power project in Hainan. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 12.63 billion, up 3.5% YoY, and regional GDP per capita was RMB 53,798. §Modern Agriculture §Tourism §Round-the-island Tourist Highway §Clean Energy §Duty Free Consumer Goods §Transportation §Foreign Trade §Agency industry §Seawater & Freshwater Aquaculture §Continuous development of featured breeding: Changjiang has 22 agricultural products certified for the origins as “three products and one standard”, among which 3 were certified in 2019. Baoping Village was accredited as a national “one village and one product” model village, and the Wangpin Honeydew Melon Base in Haiwei Town, Hefeng Century Industrial Park and Meiziquan Company Dragon Fruit Production Demonstration Base in Wulie Town were accredited as provincial modern agriculture parks. §Fast development of featured industries: The output value of the power supply was RMB 3.42 billion in 2019, up 23.2% YoY; the output value of the ferrous metal mining and processing industry was RMB 1.34 billion, up 62.5% YoY; the output value of the rubber and plastic products industry was RMB 0.14 billion, up 14.7% YoY; the output value of nonferrous metal smelting and rolling industry was RMB 0.12 billion, up 37.4% YoY. Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Chengmai 60Overview §Located in the northwest of Hainan, Chengmai is an important part of the "Hai-Cheng-Wen" integrated economic circle, with a total area of 3176 km2 and a land area of 2076 km2. The total population is about 560,000. §In 2019, the regional GDP reached RMB 33.02 billion, up 6.0% YoY. As the province's fourth largest economy, Chengmai aims to accelerate the introduction and cultivation of large low-carbon tech companies. §Digital Economy §Logistics §Productive Services §Agriculture + Tourism §Sound development of low-carbon industries: The added value of low-carbon manufacturing accounts for 13.4% of the industrial output vlaue. Industries such as blockchain, digital culture and sports, digital health, and digital finance are encouraged. The FTP Blockchain Pilot Zone has gathered more than 100 R&D institutions and famous enterprises. §Fast growth of selenium-rich agriculture: There are 5 national standardized production demonstration parks and 17 provincial standardized production demonstration parks in the county, among which the Qiaotou sweet potato planting area was accredited as the first batch of China’s featured agricultural production areas.Major Industries Target Areas HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE §Featured by tourism, modern services and high-tech industries, the key industries for investment include cultural and sports, education, health and wellness, healthcare and tourism, tropical high-productive agriculture, tourism development and urban commerce. §Featured by  southern medicine planting and southern medicine health tourism, the key industries for investment include high-end customized tourism, southern medicine tourism, agricultural products deep processing, southern medicine R&D and production, organic and healthy food. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Qiongzhong §Located in the middle of Hainan Island, its development layout is featured by the downtown area, the Green Industrial Park in the middle, the green industrial belt with the center line highway, and the urban area of eight scenic spots in Qiongzhong. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 5.75 billion, up 5.5% YoY. Tunchang §Located in central Hainan, covering an area of 1232 km2，it is the only hilly area in the province. Known as the "Hainan Central Gateway", it is 70 kilometers away from Haikou. It takes about 45 minutes by car after the opening of Haitun Expressway. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 8.57 billion, up 5% YoY.Overview Overview 61 §Leading industries include emerging green food processing, and key industries to invest in include low- carbon manufacturing, modern services,, pharmaceuticals, high-end comprehensive leisure vacation, Red Tourism Zone construction, emerging green food processing, Internet+, trade and logistics. Lingao §Leading industries include tropical fisheries and tropical high-productive agriculture, and key industries to invest  in include tropical high- productive agriculture, tourism, healthcare and e- commerce. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Dingan Overview §Dingan has an area of 1178 km2, a population of 340,000, and is located 28 kilometers from downtown Haikou, 30 kilometers from Meilan Airport, 57 kilometers from Haikou Railway Station. It is known as the back yard of Haikou. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 10.44 billion, up 2.9% YoY. Overview §Located in the northwest of Hainan, with a total area of 1693 km2 and total land area of 1317 km2, it has a population of 520,000. The county has two major development zones: Jinpaigang Economic Development Zone and Lingaojiao Tourist Resort. §Regional GDP in 2019 was RMB 19.54 billion, up 6.3% YoY. 62 §The leading industries are tourism and tropical high-productive agriculture, and key industries to invest in include tropical high-productive agriculture, tourism, sports, internet platforms, pharmaceuticals, healthcare, agricultural and forestry products trade and logistics. §Leading industries include tourism and tropical high- productive agriculture. Key investment areas include tropical high-productive agriculture, tourism and health care. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE Baoting Overview §Baoting is located in the south-central part of Hainan. It is 78 km from Sanya, 20 km from Yalong Bay Resort and 10 km from Sanya Haitang Bay Resort. The county has a total area of 1,153 km2 and a tropical monsoon climate. §Regional GDP in 2019 was RMB 55.7 billion, up 3.3% YoY.2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Baisha Overview §Baisha is located in the middle of Hainan, with a total area of 2,117 km². It is 177 km away from Haikou and 169 km away from Sanya. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product was RMB 5.66 billion, up 4.5% YoY. 63 §The leading industry is tourism. Key investment areas are Li & Miao minority culture, Communism culture, outdoor sports and forest rehabilitation. Ledong §The leading industries are tourism and tropical high- productive agriculture. Key investment areas are tourism, tropical high-productive agriculture, Internet and medical wellness. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 2 Introduction to Major Investment Regions Wuzhishan Overview §Wuzhishan has the highest mountain in Hainan, with a forest coverage rate of 86.44% and an annual average temperature of 22.4 ℃. It has been famed as  the “emerald mountain city”. §In 2019, the regional GDP reached RMB 3.4 billion, up 6.0% YoY. Overview §Ledong has an area of 4492 km² and a population of 550,000. Yuehai Railway, West-ring High-speed Railway, and multiple highways pass through Ledong. It is also close to Sanya Port, Basuo Port, Sanya Phoenix International Airport and Sanya Hongtangwan International Airport. §In 2019, the regional Gross Domestic Product reached RMB 14.44 billion, up 3.9% YoY. 64 3 Major Industrial Parks Objectives Focusing on the development of high-tech industries such as medicine and medical equipment, high-end low-carbon manufacturing, smart sensors and information technology.Location Located in the center of the Haikou Industrial Corridor, Haikou National Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone has an area of 85.42 km2.  It is the only national high-tech zone in Hainan Province and an important fulcrum for opening up. Investment Targets § High-tech industry § Medical equipment and health care § New material industry § TourismObjectives Jiangdong New Area will be the innovation area of ‘the reform and opening-up pilot zone’, the demonstration area of ‘the national eco civilization pilot zone’, the test area of ‘the international tourist consumption center’ and the demonstration area of ‘the national strategic service support zone’.Location Located in the east coast of ​​Haikou, Jiangdong New Area is close to Meilan Airport, with an area of 298 km2. The area has two parts: 106 km2 of ecological function area in the east and 192 km2 of industrial-urban integration area in the west. Investment Targets §Airport economy: aircraft maintenance & leasing, cross- border e-commerce, etc. §Service economy: headquarters economy, modern finance, digital economy, etc. §Eco economy: tourism, urban farms, health care, etc.Haikou Jiangdong New Area Haikou National Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 65 3 Major Industrial Parks Objectives Aiming to build an internationally renowned manufacturing center, R&D design center, logistics and distribution center, inspection and maintenance center and sales service center.Location Haikou Integrated FTZ is Hainan’s only integrated FTZ and one of the two special customs supervision areas. It is close to the national Catetory-1 Port (Macun Port) and round-the-island highway, with three high-speed railway stations within 15 km. It is 30 km away from Xinhai Port, 40 km away from Meilan Airport and 90 km away from Yangpu Port. Investment Targets §Bonded warehousing, duty-free goods distribution and bulk commodity trading §Cross-border e-commerce and international logistics and distribution §Low-carbon manufacturing §Jewelry processing and exhibition §Parallel-import automobiles and exhibition of vehicles §Financing lease §Regional headquarters and offshore financial settlement center Objectives Aiming at the next generation information technology , the community focuses on the development of "one zone and three industries", that is, Hainan FTZ Blockchain Pilot Zone, digital culture, digital services and digital health industry. Investment Targets § Next-generation information technology: blockchain, big data. § Digital sports: gaming, e-sports products and platforms. § Digital health: big data of medical and health. § Trade and exhibition: business service platforms and exhibitions.Haikou Integrated Free Trade Zone HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDELocation Located in the west of Haikou and along the Meilun River, Hainan Resort Software Community has a great location and is only a 30-minute drive from the Meilan International Airport. The Old Town Station of West-ring High-speed Railway is in the southwest corner of the community. Hainan Resort Software Community 66 3 Major Industrial Parks Objectives Building a coastal industrialized city with superior city functions and eco environment.Location Located in the central area of ​​the Pan Beibu Gulf and close to the ASEAN free trade area, Yangpu Economic Development Zone is our closest petrochemical and oil and gas reserve base to the oil and gas resources in South China Sea and petroleum in the Middle East. Investment Targets §New petrochemical industry §Advanced manufacturing §Modern service industryObjectives Developing international high-end medical tourism services and international cutting-edge medical science and technology, and building an international medical technology service integrated zone.Location Located in ​​Qionghai and the core area of ​​BFA, Hainan Boao Lecheng International Medical Tourism Pioneer District is surrounded by convenient transportation facilities and urban areas providing city functions. Investment Targets §Chartered Medical §Health management §Care and rehabilitation §Medical beauty and anti-agingHainan Boao Lecheng International Medical Tourism Pioneer District Yangpu Economic Development Zone HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 67 3 Major Industrial Parks Objectives Aiming to build “one port, three cities, one base” (Nanshan Port, Nanfan Technology Park, Deep Sea Technology Park, Science and Education City and Global Animal and Plant Germplasm Resources Transfer Base).Location Located in the west of Sanya, Sanya Yazhou Bay Technology Center is adjacent to Nanshan Cultural Tourism Zone and Daxiaodongtian Scenic Area. It has an area of ​​26.1 km2. Investment Targets §Deep sea industries §Nanfan Tech Industry §Tropical High-productive Agriculture §Tech Services Objectives Aiming to create a pioneer zone for the free trade environment: a national model city of eco-conservation, a leading area for international tourism consumption and the “Belt and Road” cooperation.Location Sanya Central Business District is adjacent to the coastline of Sanya Bay, with an area of ​​4.42 km2. Targets §Hailuo: headquarters and international talent community. §Yuechuan: comprehensive business area. §Phoenix Coast: free trade services, cruises and yachts, and cultural consumption. §East Bank: Shopping center and ​​headquarters.Sanya Yazhou Bay Technology Center Sanya Central Business District HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 68 3 Major Industrial Parks Objectives An open, international, innovative and integrated world- class space city.Location Including a starting area, a launching site and a supporting area. The starting area is 20 km away from Wenchang Aerospace Launching Site. The total planned area is 12.08 km2, including the west area of Bamen Bay and aerospace big data industrial zone. Investment Targets §Aerospace core industries: key experiments, engineering research, infrastructure R&D, aerospace applications, etc. §"Aerospace +" extended industries: aerospace big data applications, aerospace life sciences, aerospace tourism and wellness, etc. §Technology supporting industries: new generation information industry, new infrastructure, etc. §Service supporting industries: tech services, trade services, financial services, shared services, etc. Objectives To build a national model area for educational innovation and development and a cultivation base for innovative talents.Location Located in the southeast of Lingshui County. Investment Targets §Overseas high-level universities and independent vocational colleges in STEM, agriculture and medicine. §International renowned schools. §Chinese-foreign cooperation schools and projects.Wenchang International Aerospace City Lingshui Li'an International Education Innovation Pilot Zone HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE69 3 Major Industrial Parks Objectives Building an international base for digital economy headquarters and offshore innovation and entrepreneurship.Location Phase I is located in the coastal CBD of Haikou, and Phase II is located in the west coast, south of Haikou municipal government. There are currently 784 registered enterprises in the park. Targets §Intelligent IoT industries: chips and components, sensors, 5G, Internet of Vehicles, AI, etc. §Digital trading industries: cross-border data flow, cross-border e-commerce, digital content, digital service outsourcing, etc. §Fintech industries: blockchain, payment clearing, etc. §International offshore innovation and entrepreneurship.Fuxingcheng Internet Information Industrial Park HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 70 5Part 5. Invest In Hainan 1Official and Partner Contact Information 2Municipal and County Investment Promotion Ambassadors 3Key Industrial Park Investment Promotion Ambassadors 4Procedures for the Establishment and Entry-exit Review of Foreign-funded Enterprises