New Area Sun, Ye Tel: 86-18062220555 HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 83 Processes of establishing a foreign-invested enterprise in Hainan 4 Procedures for company establishment, and entry-exit review of border control Finish within 3 working daysAccept“One-Stop Service for Investment in Hainan” through www.contacthainan.gov.cnReview Finish Choose business type and nameName availability checkReview and signature for company nameSubmit for reviewStep 1: Name Declaration Step 2： Enterprise RegistrationNegative list screeningInformation fillingSelect the way to receive business licenseAll-in-one license and business record § From September 1, 2018, the processing time has been shortened to 7 working days for Hainan residents to apply for exit and entry permit. Quick clearance within 10 seconds is effective at the airports with self check- in/-out. § From May 1, 2018, Hainan implemented the visa-free entry policy for foreigners from 59 countries. Exit- entry review proce- duresIssuance of exit and entry permit Issuance of residence permit Window reception and preliminary review Approval by Exit-Entry Administration of Public Security Department of Hainan Province, Haikou, Sanya or Yangpu Issue residence permitIf conditions are not met, applications will not be accepted.Submit application and materials on siteOnline booking： § Hainan integrated online government service platform § Hainan public security exit-entry APP Window reception and preliminary review If the conditions are met, then pay Review, approval Document production Issue permitIf conditions are not met, return the application and inform reasons.Entry-exit review procedures HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 84 Closing words In 2020, the construction of the Hainan Free Trade Port is initiated and it will create a highly free, convenient and open business environment. Based on the Master Plan for the Constuction of Hainan Free Trade Port, this guide aims to comprehensively display the investment policies, investment opportunities, investment regions, investment promotion agencies and other investment related issues of the Hainan Free Trade Port, to provide guidance to global investors intending to do business in Hainan. During the preparation of this guide, we received strong support from the provincial government departments, cities, counties, and key industrial parks of Hainan. Hence, IEDB would like to thank all relevant parties for their hard work and efforts for the collection, update and verification of information and data. The 2020 Hainan Free Trade Port Investment Guide was jointly issued by Hainan IEDB and PwC China. PwC China mobilized its top talents to present the first edition of the Hainan Free Trade Port Investment Guide to global investors with a professional perspective and unconventional speed. Special thanks to PwC China. This version of the Investment Guide provides a one-stop service for global investors. As for content, structure, layout design, etc., the guide meets the needs of investors, allowing them to know about the Hainan Free Trade Port more concisely and comprehensively, as well as to get the most practical investment and settlement information. This version of the Investment Guide is published in both Chinese and English, and investors from all over the world are welcome to read, share and provide valuable opinions and suggestions. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 85