n’s free trade port construction.4 Sixty Key Policies for Foreign Investments 22 33. Industry Guidance 1 Hainan's Leading Industries 2 Industry investment opportunities in Hainan Free Trade Port 23 1 Hainan’s Leading Industries Tourism Modern Service High-tech IndustryHainan will implement the policies of Hainan Free Trade Port, fostering to develop an open, eco-friendly and service-oriented industry system supported by tourism, modern service and high-tech industry as core industries, aiming to upgrade Hainan's existing industrial structure and achieve high-quality industrial development. §Hainan is the only tropical island province in China. With unique advantages, tourism has always been the backbone industry of Hainan, making it a popular place for leisure tourism which welcomes a large number of domestic and foreign tourists every year. §Hainan Free Trade Port, as a frontier region of China for opening up, will play a leading role in the institutional innovation of the modern service industry. In 2019, the modern service industry’s added value reached 141.66 billion yuan, up 8.7% YoY, contributing to 40% of GDP growth, and making it a major driving force for economic growth. §Thanks to the construction of Free Trade Port, Hainan has built a superior environment for innovation and the development of high-tech industry. In 2019, the number of high-tech enterprises in Hainan reached 566, up 48.6% YoY. High-tech industry has shown its new potential, and has gradually become the growth engine of Hainan's modern economic system. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 24 1.1 Tourism §Implement more convenient duty-free shopping policies.Current Status §As a backbone industry in Hainan, tourism is entering into a period of high-speed development. §In 2019, total tourism revenue in Hainan reached 105 billion yuan, up 11% YoY, and the value added of tourism industry increased by 10% YoY. §Unique tourism resources Hainan is the only tropical island province in China, with the largest marine area, abundant tourism resources, and high- quality typical tropical island scenery. §Highest density of luxury hotels Luxury resort hotels are densely located in Hainan, with 78 world famous hotel management groups and 94 international brand hotels. ‐83.14 million domestic and foreign tourists, up 9% YoY. ‐1.42 million inbound visitors, up 12% YoY. Development Advantages New Opportunities for FTP Investment§Duty free upon exit Hainan is the only province that can enjoy duty-free shopping without going abroad, with the world's largest duty-free shop, and prices 15%-35% lower than that with duty added. §Visa-free policy for 59 countries Citizens from 59 countries can enter Hainan visa-free. There were more than 470,000 visa-free arrivals in 2019, up 33% YoY, bringing a large number of international visitors. 01 02 Shopping Tour Sports Tour 04Culture Tour 05Cruise Home Port Construction 06 Yacht TourHainan will further open up and develop tourism, actively promoting new businesses and new hot spots, enhancing high-end tourism consumption, and upgrading the quality of the tourism industry. §Promote the integration of tourism, sports and elderly care. §Combine cruise economy with sightseeing industry for mutual development.§Build a comprehensive service platform for yacht tour and raise supervision of yacht leasing.§Develop emerging culture consumption, such as animation games and digital consumption. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE03 Medical Tour §Expand the opening up of medical area, following the policies in Boao Lecheng International Medical Tourism Advance Zone. 25 1.2 Modern Services 45.3%Modern Services/ Service Industry in Hainan 1066.8 349.8 Pro… Life…Current Status Development Direction New Opportunities for FTP InvestmentThe composition of modern service industry in Hainan Unit: RMB 100 million § The construction of free trade port brings Hainan a historical opportunity to develop modern service industry. Hainan will play a leading role in the innovation of service industry system and become an important window to the world. § Hainan's modern service industry will be transformed into a industry with features of high value addition, high- end, knowledge-based production service  and high- quality lifestyle service industry.01 02Headquarter EconomyModern Finance 03 04Business ServicesExhibition 05 06 Culture and SportsHealth & Medical 07 International Education08 International Shipping 09 Marine ServicesSeize the historical opportunity and lay out diversified field § Further lift restrictions on foreign investment and attract headquarters of MNCs. § Open up the international shipping industry. § Open up the education industry to build an international education innovation island. § Build a Hainan international design island and regional international exhibition center, and further open up professional service industry. § Build a marine service system with world competitiveness. § Build a culture trade base with foreign countries. Haikou, Sanya and Yangpu will be the key areas in building a modern service economic center with regional influence. HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE§ Modern service industry plays an important role, contributes the most to the economic growth of the province, and stimulates employment rate. § In 2019, the value added of Hainan's modern service industry reached 141.66 billion yuan, up 8.7% YoY, contributing 40% of GDP growth, driving GDP to grow 2.3 %. The number of entities in modern service industry market was 746,000, up 21.7% YOY. 10International Design 26 1.3 High-Tech Industry Current Status §In 2019, high-tech industry in Hainan realized added value of 26.21 billion yuan, up 4.5% YoY. The number of high-tech enterprises reached 566, up 48.6% YoY, and the operating income was 74.02 billion yuan. High-tech industry has gradually become the new engine of Hainan’s modern economic system. 10 science and technology business incubators in the province, and 2 state-level incubators 28 entrepreneurship spaces, 7 of which nationally registered 118 academician innovation platforms across the province §Introduce preferential tax system. Hainan free trade port will implement a "zero tariff, low tax rate and simple tax system" similar to Hong Kong, Singapore and other world-famous free trade ports. §Provide convenience in cross-border investment, financing and capital flow. The free trade port will implement a flexible foreign investment and foreign exchange management system, and innovate ways of government regulation. §Facilitate free movement of the talents and communication of information. The visa-free policy for people from 59 countries and the convenient cross-border flow of data make it easier for high-tech talents to work in Hainan, making patented technology creation environment more friendly. §Reduce the investment cost of high-tech enterprises through implementing Headquarter Policy. Hainan is adjusting its headquarters policies. It will attract R & D centers of world renowned enterprises.New Opportunities for FTP InvestmentDevelopment Direction Abyssal sea technologySeed and Tropical High- production AgricultureAerospace "Sea, land and air" simultaneous development Advanced manufacturing §IoT §AI §Blockchain §Digital trade ……§Eco and environment protection §Biomedicine §New energy vehicles §Smart vehicles ……§Global tropical agricultural center §Global animal and plant resources introduction and transfer center ……§Space launch center §Space supercomputing center ……§Abyssal sea equipment §Abyssal sea material §Abyssal sea communication ……Smart Hainan HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE 27 2 Industrial Investment Opportunities HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDEDuty Free Consumer Goods Cruise and YachtAviation Industry Culture and SportsFinancing LeaseMedical Technology Modern FinanceAbyssal Sea TechnologyEducation IndustryOffshore TradeOil and Gas Chemical Industry Shipping VesselInformation and Communication TechnologyTropical High- production Agriculture Advanced Low- Carbon ManufacturingAerospace Industry Headquarter EconomyRound-the- island Road Stations 28 2.1 Duty Free Consumer Goods HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE200亿Preferential tax-free policy support Hainan will add duty-free venues and market entities, increase the duty-free quota to 100,000 yuan per person per year, expand the types of duty-free goods, and allow duty-free purchases of imported goods consumed by local residents by 2025. No visa is needed for people from 59 countries, “duty free upon exit" is changed to “duty free upon arrival", procedures for purchasing duty-free goods are simplified, postal tax is levitated,  the customs clearance mode of "zero tariffs across the island” is on the way, and a highly convenient business environment will be provided to all brands. Considerable consumption flow Hainan will simultaneously develop high-end culture, sports and tourism industries, introducing world-class theme parks, large international exhibitions and events, promoting high-quality tourism products such as cruise and yachts, culture and sports, exhibitions, leisure and night tourism. It will continue to attract consumers with strong purchasing power to make luxury industry prosperous. Smart upgrades in CBD Hainan will fully optimize the technical standards of e-commerce in terms of transactions, payment, logistics, and foreign exchange settlement, simplify the customs clearance process and supervision model, build a "smart business circle", and further expand sales channels.China's only duty-free exit policy Hainan is the only province in China that can enjoy duty-free shopping without going abroad, and it has a dominant advantage in the country’s large-scale retail industry with low price and abundant products. Perfect supporting services Hainan will host global events of new designs, International Fashion Week (SS/AW), combined with a showroom in the fashion week show as a new channel and platform for global buyers and retailers to purchase and order.§In 2019, Hainan’s sales of duty-free goods reached 18.119 million in quantity and 13.49 billion yuan in value, with the number of shoppers over 3.762 million, up 37.3%, 38.5% and 35% YoY respectively. §There are four duty-free shops in Sanya Haitang Bay, Haikou Meilan Airport, Haikou Riyue Plaza and Qionghai Boao Dongyu Island, with a variety of high-end duty-free goods serving 80 million tourists worldwide every year.Current Status Development Advantages §Create a global duty-free consumption center with "first store, first brand, first show, first launch", a global fashion trend information center, and a new landmark of fashion industry § Support the following organizations to open the first duty-free flagship store and regional headquarters:Development Direction ‐ Luxury brands ‐ Independent designer brands ‐ International master studio ‐ Art research institute ‐ Fashion marketing agency ‐ High-end retail department store New Opportunities for FTP Investment 29 2.2 Cruise and Yacht HAINAN FREE TRADE PORT INVESTMENT GUIDE New Opportunities for FTP InvestmentCruise IndustryCurrent Status Yacht industry § Imports of cruise ships and yachts are exempt from duties, import value-added tax and consumption tax. § The only province that allows yacht leasing in China.